So, welcome to a relatively
short and sweet video, Handling Game Win Condition. We're
simply going to get ourselves to a state where, should the player win the game by,
for example, typing the right
word, which is planet in my case then it says "WELL DONE - YOU WIN!".
And of course, if they fail to put the right word in enough times,
planes planes planes. In this case, I've set my
variable to 3 rather than 8, just to make it happen quicker. Then,
we get a "Better luck next time!" So, that's what we're doing in this video!
So, let's take a look at this! We're inside PlayGame(), and it's
at the end of PlayGame(), once the game has finished and we've exited this while loop that we
want to summarize the game, like you won you lost etc.
and give them some instructions. Now, I've just noticed that we do not return anything from
this void method. Whether you should or shouldn't is a moot point,
really. Is there any point in saying return? Nothing from a void method. Well,
if you look back at the lecture, simplifying with functions, I
suggested we do always do that there. And also, if you look at the slide for
simplifying with functions, around about slide number 35 in this
deck, then you'll see a couple of suggestions as to why you should or shouldn't return. But I'm going to
suggest you do say return, it's no big deal either way. OK, so summarize
the game. How are we going to do that? Well, I'm going to write a method to do that, so...
Or am I? Ha ha ha, I think you're going to write a method to do
that, because it's going to be good practice and you have everything you need to do it. So,
I want you to define PrintGameSummary(). Arrange for
a "You won / bad luck" better luck next time, type of message. Decide where in the program
it goes, write a function for it, and test that it works. So,
go ahead, do that, write that message out based on whether they've won or now,
and I'll see you in a moment!.
Welcome back! So, we're going to call this thing a print game summary. So, we're outside of a
class here, and even if we're in a class, we would still have had to prototype this. It's
just that if we're in a class the header file provides these prototypes
and then come through this cut and past in the include. And if we're outside
a class like this, then we just need to write a prototype at the top. So,
the prototype is going to be void, because we don't need anything to come back.
PringGameSummary();
taking in no arguments. Cool! So, let's take this
PrintGameSummary() and actually define it down here. PlayGame(), GetValidGuess(),
AskToPlayAgain(), PrintGameSummary(). Cool! What are we going to say and how is this going to
work? Well, it's going to depend whether they won or not, right? So, we're going to want to say something
like if get is game
1, so (BCGame.IsGame1()).
Well, if it's 1 then we're going to say this.
We're going to say something like... What shall we say?
cout << "WELL Done
- YOU WIN!"
OK, so "WELL DONE - YOU WIN!"
And then, probably a backslash n, and we'll try that in a minute.
And if the game isn't won, otherwise the game must be not won, in which case
we'll say something simple like...
Of course, it's standard cout. Look at my underlines there telling me off! Standard
cout. We're
going to say something like, "Better luck
next time!\n". Hmm, do you want to play
again, by the way? We better let them know it's with the same
word, hidden word.
Because some people ask, you know, is it the same hidden word? So, let's
try this! Are we there? Not quite! We? have
PrintGameSummary() but we're never called it, so I just need to call it, at the bottom
of my PlayGame() method.
PrintGameSummary(), OK let's see if this works! So, we
get to the end of the PlayGame(), we PrintGameSummary(), and we just
print based on a simple condition. Conditional code
and you've got to love it! So, if I go planes, then it says oh you're nearly there! If I
go planet it goes, ooh you're there! "WELL DONE - YOU WIN!" "Do you want to play again with the same hidden
word?" No! Bye bye! And if I say yes, let's just check
that works. Cool, and we'll
try again! OK fantastic, so that's a useful improvement!
Let's move on! Let's get some more stuff that we need to do done. Let's go to our to do's,
see what else we need to do. Now, I happen to know there's a couple of things we
didn't put in a task list but this one we did.
Reset() needs to return a more rich return value.
Why would it want to do that? Well, the idea there is that perhaps the
hidden word, that we've set in Reset(), is not an isogram, it is
in some other way not valid. But we don't yet
have methods for not isogram or is isogram or
all lowercase, so that's what we should turn our attention to. Now, where do we need to do
that? It was inside the method that talks about
whether the guess is valid or not. Remember where it says guess check, check validity? Let's go to the
definition of CheckGuessValidity(). Really, I should have put TODO's
here. We should have had, and I'll do it right now, a couple of TODO's saying
TODO write
method or function, because we need a
function for whether or not it's all lowercase, and
in fact, let's put it here in the TODO. And we need
one here.  "TODO write function". OK, so our
task lists really should have been looking more like
this. You don't have to manage your task lists but it's a useful thing, and this is for something
we needed to do. So, a couple of methods we need. One is not lowercase and the other is not isogram.
So, we'll make implementing the not isogram method the subject
of the next video, which will unlock a load of potential to get this game
completely finished. So, well done getting this far, and I'll see you soon!